# Earthquake-magnitude-Machine-Learning-models
In this repository we have a project model that compares the different machine learning models to precisely predict the magnitude of an earthquake given the location and the distance of the origin of the waves underground. 
Predicting earthquakes has always been a difficult task and it all comes down to the data you use to train the model with. The dataset used for this research paper consists of an extensive record of 317,284 earthquakes that took place from 1993 to 2022 in Greece. The dataset was sourced from the National Observatory Of Athens. Furthermore, each record encapsulates the latitude, longitude, time, dept and its square root and finally the magnitude. The square root of the dept helps manage the outliers and helps bring the data closer to a normal distribution. Additionally, this also helps in revealing certain non-linear patterns that most linear models find difficult to detect.
The wide variety of algorithms made it possible to provide a thorough comparison, which revealed which approaches are better suited for such difficult prediction tasks. It was clear from the multi-linear regression model's poor performance that predicting earthquake magnitudes is a non-linear challenge. Because there are so many variables that might affect seismic activity, many of which might not even be included in the dataset, earthquake prediction is complicated. Among the regression models, Gradient Boosting Algorithm K-nearest neighbor exhibited the highest R2 score, closely followed by the K-nearest neighbor Algorithm. 
